Add blog post for Tool Annotations (#2230)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: blog/content/posts/2026-03-16-tool-annotations.md

**Improve UX.** `title` is just a display name. Annotations that help users understand what tools do without running them are useful regardless of trust. No MCP client currently lets users filter tools by annotation values, though GitHub's read-only mode is a production analog, enabled by about 17% of users.

**Feed policy engines.** Annotations can be one input among several into a policy engine enforcing rules like "no destructive tools without approval" or "open-world tools are blocked in sessions that have accessed private data." The hints don't need to be perfectly trustworthy if the engine cross-references other signals.

Adoption across all of these is uneven, partly because MCP users split into two camps. Developers building autonomous agents treat confirmations as friction and lean on sandboxing instead. Enterprise adopters want more annotations than currently exist. One camp barely notices annotations, the other wants a much richer vocabulary.

## What Annotations Can't Do

> **They don't stop prompt injection.** Annotations are static metadata on a tool definition. Prompt injection is a runtime attack on the model. Nothing in the annotation tells the model to ignore malicious instructions it reads from a calendar event.

Reviewer: True today; but they could, actually, if we had a `seesUntrustedData` annotation or similar.

| Hint                    | Example client behavior                                              |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `readOnlyHint: true`    | Skip the confirmation dialog                                         |
| `destructiveHint: true` | Show a warning before executing                                      |
| `idempotentHint: true`  | Safe to retry on failure                                             |
| `openWorldHint: true`   | Scrutinize output for untrusted content; flag a trust-boundary cross |

### 2. Does it need trust to be useful?

`title` is useful even from an untrusted server; worst case you show a bad display name. `readOnlyHint` from an untrusted server isn't actionable, because the decision it informs — whether to skip a confirmation — only makes sense if you believe the hint. Proposals should say where they fall on that spectrum, since it determines which clients can actually use them.

### 3. Could `_meta` handle it instead?

> Tools already have [`_meta`](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-11-25/basic#_meta), which accepts namespaced keys like `com.example/my-field` for exactly this kind of metadata. If an annotation only matters to a handful of specialized clients or one deployment style, it probably belongs there instead of in the protocol. `_meta` is also a good way to prove out an idea before writing a SEP. A vendor can ship a namespaced field, see how it holds up in production, and come back with a proposal backed by actual usage instead of a design doc.

Reviewer: Technically true but I'm not sure how I feel about recommending this - as soon as we start talking about UX patterns that limits us to off the shelf clients, and `_meta` is simply a nonstarter there.

In the meantime, the existing annotations are worth using. If you're writing a server, set `readOnlyHint: true` on read-only tools, `destructiveHint: false` on additive operations, and `openWorldHint: false` on closed-domain tools. If you're writing a client, treat annotations from untrusted servers as informational and lean on them for UX, but keep your actual safety guarantees in deterministic controls. And if you're thinking of proposing a new annotation, the questions above are a good place to start shaping it.

## Get Involved

The Tool Annotations Interest Group is forming now. If you're interested in contributing:

- Review the open SEPs linked above and leave feedback

> - Join the conversation in `#agents-wg` on the [MCP Contributors Discord](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/community/communication#discord)

Author: ```suggestion
- Join the conversation in `#tool-annotations-ig` on the [MCP Contributors Discord](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/community/communication#discord)
```

> - Watch for the formal interest group proposal and channel in the Discord server

Author: I think we can remove this line now that the channel exists?
